# Home Assistant Add-on: TransIPdns

## Installation

Follow these steps to get the add-on installed on your system:

1. Navigate in your Home Assistant frontend to **Supervisor** -> **Add-on Store**.
2. Find the "TransIP dyndns" add-on and click it.
3. Click on the "INSTALL" button.

## How to use (prefered)

1. Visit [transip.nl](https://www.transip.nl) and log in on the control panel.
2. In the `Control Panel` area, click on the `Domain & Hosting` section, click `Add`. Type in the name field "_acme-challenge" on the TTL field chose 1 min, for Type      field chose TXT and fill in a dummy value for value
3. For the best result we recommend to enable the option update dns, this will update the record created on step 4 .
   this is faster then waiting for the dns servers to sync. (first time after creating key on step 4 could take several hours use the dig command to check record is      synced)
4. On the transIP control panel create a private key and save this as(private_transip_key.pem) on the /SSL directory of HA.

5. In the add-on configuration, perform the following:
    - Enter your transIP username in the username box.
    - Enter your domain name on the domain box. E.g., `transip.nl`.

## Configuration

Add-on configuration:

```yaml
lets_encrypt:
  accept_terms: true
  certfile: fullchain.pem
  keyfile: privkey.pem
username: transipusername
domain: transip.nl
aliases: []
updatedns: true
seconds: 300

```

Additionally, you'll need to configure the Home Assistant Core to pick up the SSL certificates. This is done by setting the following configuration for the [HTTP][HTTP] integration configuration in your `configuration.yaml`:

```yaml
http:
  ssl_certificate: /ssl/fullchain.pem
  ssl_key: /ssl/privkey.pem
```

### Option group `lets_encrypt`

The following options are for the option group: `lets_encrypt`. These settings
only apply to Let's Encrypt SSL certificates.

#### Option `lets_encrypt.accept_terms`

Once you have read and accepted the Let's Encrypt[Subscriber Agreement](https://letsencrypt.org/repository/), change value to `true` in order to use Let's Encrypt services.

#### Option `lets_encrypt.certfile`

The name of the certificate file generated by Let's Encrypt. The file is used for SSL by Home Assistant add-ons and is recommended to keep the filename as-is (`fullchain.pem`) for compatibility.

**Note**: _The file is stored in `/ssl/`, which is the default for Home Assistant_

#### Option `lets_encrypt.keyfile`

The name of the private key file generated by Let's Encrypt. The private key file is used for SSL by Home Assistant add-ons and is recommended to keep the filename as-is (`privkey.pem`) for compatibility.

**Note**: _The file is stored in `/ssl/`, which is the default for Home Assistant_

### Option: `ipv4` (optional)

This option allows you to override the auto-detection and specify an
IPv4 address manually.

If you specify a URL here, contents of the resource it points to will be
fetched and used as the address. This enables getting the address using
a service like https://api.ipify.org/ or https://ipv4.text.wtfismyip.com

### Option: `ipv6` (optional)

This option allows you to override the auto-detection and specify an
IPv6 address manually.

If you specify a URL here, contents of the resource it points to will be
fetched and used as the address. This enables getting the address using
a service like https://api6.ipify.org/ or https://ipv6.text.wtfismyip.com


### Option: `domain`

Your domain name.

### Option: `seconds`

The number of seconds to wait before re-running all checks. (lets crypt and IP validation)
Lets-crypt validation only takes place every 12 hours.

## Credit

This add-on is at 90% a copy of the official DuckDNS add-on 

